Hey, welcome back. On today's episode — LG cracking down on smart TVs secretly hijacked into stranger's internet traffic, counterfeit retro computer boards flooding the vintage gaming market, and a Steam Machine case the community had to 3D-print themselves. Plus our Deep Dive asks the real question: once you own a device, who actually has the legal right to change what it does? That and more, coming right up.
Welcome to Cariboo Signals, an AI-generated review of the latest tech news and ideas that impact our rural communities — I'm Casey. It's Wednesday, July 22nd, 2026. Reaching you from the heart of the Cariboo, the homeland of the Secwépemc, Tŝilhqot'in, and Dakelh nations. Today's theme is Repair Culture & Practical Tech.
And I'm Riley. Today's about the stuff you can actually fix yourself — the gear that outlives its warranty, the manufacturers who fight you on it, and the people who keep things running anyway.
Quick weather check before we get into it. Out at Horsefly Lake it's fourteen degrees with clear skies, heading to a high of thirty, low of fourteen — tomorrow looks overcast. Around the region, 100 Mile House is sitting at seventeen, Williams Lake at sixteen, Quesnel at fourteen, and out on the Chilcotin plateau, Anahim Lake is at twelve, all mostly clear skies. It's a scorcher out there — stay hydrated, and keep an eye on the BC Wildfire Dashboard, because there's a lot to check today.
Let's get into what's happening.
Today's on-theme stories all circle the same question — who actually controls a device once you've paid for it. We'll start with a new book making waves this week. Author Bridget Todd argues the real problem with AI companionship isn't the people who use it for comfort or conversation — it's the companies building those tools to maximize engagement rather than genuine wellbeing.
So the fix isn't "stop talking to your chatbot," it's "stop designing chatbots to exploit loneliness for retention numbers."
That same control question shows up in a much more dangerous form in a WIRED piece on a new hacking tool targeting AI infrastructure. Researchers found malware that can burrow deep into AI coding systems, steal data and login credentials, and in the worst case trigger what they're calling a "death switch" — destroying files and locking real users out of systems they thought were theirs.
Krebs on Security has a related story, and it's the one that lands closest to home for anyone with a smart TV in the living room. LG says it's going to start suspending any app built for its televisions that quietly turns the TV into what's called a residential proxy node — basically routing someone else's internet traffic through your household connection without your knowledge. The move comes after researchers found tens of thousands of LG TVs had been recruited into these networks through third-party apps.
So the television you bought outright can still get repurposed by a stranger, remotely, for something you never agreed to.
Engadget's got a smaller but genuinely useful story in this same lens — that crossed-out trash can icon stamped on nearly every piece of electronics you own. It's the official marking of the EU's Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, telling you the device legally can't go in regular household garbage — it needs proper e-waste handling, because of the metals and chemicals inside.
Hackaday has a story built for anyone doing the hands-on version of that gear-keeping work — counterfeit retro computer mainboards showing up in the vintage gaming and computing market. One builder sourcing parts for a Pentium 4-era retro build discovered boards with fake AGP graphics slots soldered on just to look period-correct to buyers who can't inspect them in person.
So even the hobby of keeping old hardware alive now has a counterfeiting problem layered on top of the usual sourcing headaches.
A few quicker ones round out the on-theme block. The Verge covered Peak Design's new modular Field Bracket for cameras, which has a Bluetooth finder tag built right in — handy if, like their reviewer admits, you're the type who's left a camera in an Uber or on an airplane. Neowin flagged a new Windows 11 Insider build that adds braille display support along with more language options, a small but genuinely meaningful accessibility upgrade. And TechCrunch reported Threads is rolling out parental supervision tools — time-spent tracking, daily limits, sleep mode, and privacy controls parents and guardians can manage directly.
From that same block — Tom's Guide crowned a Samsung OLED "TV of the Year" at an industry shootout and then, in the same breath, recommended readers buy a cheaper competing model instead. Possibly the most honest tech review published all week. There's also a piece on National Ice Cream Month machines starting at fifty-four dollars, if that's more your speed than television diagnostics. And Business Insider reported a social mapping startup called Corner, built for saving and sharing local spots with friends, has doubled its funding to seven and a half million dollars.
Two odd little Boing Boing pieces closed out that block — why roughly eighty-five percent of tall buildings skip a labeled thirteenth floor, tracing back to elevator industry surveys on triskaidekaphobia, and a look at Kijŏng-dong, North Korea's fake propaganda village with painted-on windows visible from the South Korean side of the DMZ. Cory Doctorow's newsletter also ran a piece this week arguing the open web is still a platform that needs protecting.
Turning closer to home now — the wildfire situation actually got worse overnight, and it's worth real space today. The Williams Lake Tribune reports a fast-moving fire near Boston Bar has grown to roughly a thousand hectares, triggering new evacuation orders overnight. CFJC Today in Kamloops adds that two major B.C. highways through the Fraser Canyon are now closed entirely because of it, cutting off a key transportation corridor. That's stacked on top of the six hundred properties already under evacuation order and fifty-seven hundred more under alert that the Tribune reported provincewide just yesterday.
BC Gov News announced new funding this week to strengthen emergency operations centres, specifically to help local governments and First Nations coordinate their responses — timely, given everything unfolding in the Fraser Canyon right now.
And My Cariboo Now reports BC Wildfire Service crews are actively battling close to a dozen separate wildfires across our own region as of this week, so this isn't just a Fraser Canyon story — it's happening here too.
One more closer-to-home story that deserves its own space rather than a quick mention. Xatśūll First Nation has filed a petition for an emergency order to protect southern mountain caribou from the Central Selkirk herd. This isn't symbolic — an emergency order under federal species-at-risk legislation is a real legal mechanism with teeth, and Xatśūll is formally asking Ottawa to actually invoke it.
Worth watching how quickly, or slowly, the federal government responds, given how sluggish those emergency-order processes have historically moved on other herds.
TechCrunch reports the AI music generator Suno suffered a data breach affecting fifty-five million users, according to Have I Been Pwned, with names, phone numbers, and physical addresses exposed. Suno's tools happen to produce this show's own theme music, so that one hits a little close to home for us.
And in a related vein, The Verge reported a federal judge has approved Anthropic's billion-and-a-half-dollar class action settlement with authors who accused the company of training its models on pirated books — Anthropic's Claude is what writes and curates this script, worth being upfront about that.
On the brighter side, Quartz had a genuinely striking story — GE Aerospace, working with NASA, BETA Technologies, and Boeing, flew the world's first hybrid-electric flight at altitude, including a transatlantic ferry flight operated in hybrid-electric mode.
And on the agriculture side, the Western Producer covered a feed truck mixer called the Triotruck taking silver at Ag in Motion this year — it combines a feed mixer and a truck into one all-in-one unit, and notably requires no special license to drive, which matters for smaller operations that can't justify a dedicated commercial driver.
That's the roundup for today. Before we move into the spotlight, we've got a listener favourite lined up.
We do.
Today we're spotlighting the Boys and Girls Club of Williams Lake. They've been running after-school programs, summer camps, and youth mentorship since 1994, and the programs stay low-cost or no-cost so every kid in the community can actually take part, not just the ones whose families can afford registration fees. If you're a parent looking for something for your kids this summer, or you're interested in volunteering, check out bgcwilliamslake.com.
Thirty-plus years of steady, unglamorous work keeping kids connected to something structured — that's exactly the kind of institution that outlasts any single grant cycle or press release.
Which, funnily enough, is not a bad segue into what we're digging into today.
There's a story out of the gaming world this week that's a better parallel to rural repair culture than it looks at first glance. Valve's Steam Machine has been hitting what people are calling "Red Line of Death" hardware issues, and the official Companion Cube case Valve promised for it never really materialized in a form people liked. So the community just built their own. Multiple 3D-printed case designs are circulating now, some arguably better executed than what Valve originally shipped.
(deadpan) A video game console case. That's the parallel you're leading with today?
The pattern is the parallel, not the object itself. Manufacturer support falls short of what was promised, and the community fills the gap with open designs anyone with a printer can replicate. That's the exact shape of repair culture — except this time it's modification and improvement, not just restoring what broke.
Modification and repair aren't actually the same category, and the distinction matters more than it sounds. Repair restores function the manufacturer already promised you. Modification changes what the device does — and manufacturers have a lot more legal latitude to shut that down whenever it suits them. Valve could push a firmware update tomorrow that breaks compatibility with every one of those printed cases, and there'd be no recourse.
They could. They haven't. Valve's whole business model since the Steam Deck has leaned deliberately into being moddable. It's a calculated design philosophy, not an accident they happen to be tolerating this month.
One company, on one product line, choosing to be generous right now. That's a mood, not a right, and moods change with new leadership or new revenue pressure. LG is the counterexample sitting right next door — a manufacturer reaching into a device you already own and changing what it's allowed to do, because it suited their interests, not yours.
LG shutting down the proxy abuse is actually the good version of that same underlying power, though. Same mechanism, opposite direction. The problem was never that manufacturers can reach into your device remotely — that's true of almost everything with a chip in it now, from your TV to your tractor. The problem is that nobody but the manufacturer gets a vote on which direction that reach points.
Now you're actually getting somewhere. The real question underneath all of this isn't "can the community fix things when they break," it's "who has the legal standing to change what a device does once you own it." Right-to-repair legislation, where it exists, got you the parts and the schematics. It never got you the right to modify the thing beyond its original design.
Canada doesn't really have a right-to-repair framework with teeth yet, either — a few provinces have tabled bills over the past couple of years, but nothing close to the EU's directive that came into force back in 2024, covering phones, laptops, and home appliances. And even that European framework only covers restoring original function. Nobody's legislated a right to change what a device does beyond what it shipped with.
Which matters a lot more out here than it does for a video game console. Think about farm equipment. A lot of newer tractors lock diagnostic software behind dealer-only access, so a rancher near Williams Lake with a broken sensor can't just swap the part and clear the fault code themselves — they need a dealer technician to physically plug in proprietary software the machine itself would tell them how to fix, if the software let them see it.
That's the John Deere model specifically, and American farmers have actually fought it through the courts and through state-level right-to-repair laws. But notice what those wins covered — restoring the machine to its original factory function. Nobody's successfully argued for the right to reprogram a combine to do something the manufacturer never intended it to do.
Should they, though? That's a much bigger legal ask. Circumventing a digital lock — even to fix your own equipment for a legitimate purpose — runs straight into anti-circumvention provisions in copyright law here, similar in structure to the American DMCA. There have been narrow exemptions carved out for repair purposes in some jurisdictions. Canada hasn't tested that question in a real case, as far as I'm aware.
That's the actual gap, then. Not a funding gap, not a skills gap — a legal one. Nobody's forced the question of whether bypassing a software lock, specifically to modify farm equipment or off-grid gear for a legitimate rural use, is even legal here in the first place.
And nobody wants to be the test case, understandably. Which is quietly the reason these locks survive as long as they do — not because anyone genuinely thinks they're fair, but because challenging one in court costs vastly more than just buying whatever replacement part the dealer is selling.
There's a rural angle buried in Ukraine's weapons manufacturers this week that's actually relevant here. Business Insider reported their arms makers are wrestling with how to keep continuously updating equipment in the field without slowing down mass production — constant small modification cycles instead of one big periodic redesign.
(chuckles) That's a wartime necessity born out of desperation, not a business model anyone's choosing voluntarily. Nobody's picking that tempo for fun.
Sure, but the underlying design principle still transfers. Build the platform so it's engineered to accept constant small modifications, instead of treating every change as a warranty-voiding event that requires manufacturer sign-off. That's exactly what a rancher fixing a seed drill in a shop outside Horsefly actually needs the manufacturer to have designed for from the start — not one-time permission to hack the machine, but a platform that assumes ongoing modification is a completely normal part of its working life.
Norton Motorcycles is doing something closer to that, actually — the new adventure bike New Atlas covered this week is part of a comeback after the brand nearly collapsed entirely a few years back. Old mechanical platform, new engineering layered on top, but still built around a maintainable core instead of everything getting locked behind proprietary electronics and dealer-only diagnostic tools.
Which is precisely the market case I keep coming back to. Durability and modifiability aren't inherently more expensive to design for — they're a deliberate choice, and some manufacturers are clearly realizing that choice pays off in long-term brand loyalty and resale value.
One motorcycle brand's comeback marketing strategy isn't evidence of an industry-wide trend, though. And even where a platform genuinely is open, there's still the counterfeit parts problem — fake retro mainboards with soldered-on AGP slots that look correct in a photo and aren't, once they arrive. Order a part for something you're keeping alive in a shop two hours from the nearest specialty supplier, and you have no way to verify what you're actually getting until it either works or fails.
That's a real gap — sourcing trust when you physically can't inspect the seller or the part before it ships. Though there are informal community verification networks for retro hardware now, hobbyist forums that actively flag known counterfeit board revisions before people order them.
Forums run entirely by volunteers with no formal standing whatsoever, tracking counterfeits as an unpaid hobby on top of their actual jobs. Informal knowledge networks doing work that arguably ought to sit somewhere far more durable and accountable.
This is actually a different failure point than skill or funding gaps. Even with skill and will fully present, the legal and information environment can block a project before it's even started. A counterfeit board wastes an afternoon and some money. A digital lock on a piece of equipment can end the whole project outright, regardless of skill level.
Granted — the skill isn't the bottleneck here, the law is. So what actually changes that?
Somebody has to force the legal question directly. Not through years of lobbying — through an actual test case, or a formal request for regulatory clarity. The Canadian Intellectual Property Office and the Copyright Board both have existing processes for seeking exemptions to anti-circumvention rules for specific, defined uses. As far as either of us knows, nobody rural has pushed a case through that process specifically for equipment repair or modification.
That's a real lever, and notably it's not a grant application — it needs somebody with actual legal standing, a documented harm, and legal support willing to actually file the thing. A regional agricultural co-op, a producers' association, something carrying an institutional name behind it rather than one frustrated individual rancher trying to fight a multinational alone.
The Cariboo Regional District, or a producer group here in the region, could plausibly be exactly that kind of applicant — if the harm gets documented specifically enough. Not vague complaints about locked software in the abstract, but a named piece of equipment, a specific software lock, and a specific dollar cost imposed by not being legally able to bypass it.
(thoughtful) That's the first ask in weeks around here that doesn't end at "somebody needs to fund this." It actually ends at "somebody with standing needs to file this."
Which leaves a genuinely open question — not whether the will or the money exists in this community, but whether anyone with the legal standing is willing to actually be the test case first. Until somebody does, every workaround out there stays exactly what it is right now — a 3D-printed case, a hobbyist forum thread flagging fake circuit boards, quiet informal fixes for a legal question the country hasn't actually settled yet.
(warmly) And that's the note worth ending on, honestly — the tools and the ingenuity are already here. What's missing is somebody willing to put a name on the lawsuit. If anyone listening has run into a locked-down piece of equipment they couldn't legally get into, or knows a group already looking at a legal challenge like this, write in — feedback at cariboo signals dot c-a.
Feedback at that same address if you've got a workaround of your own nobody officially sanctioned — we'd genuinely like to hear it. Have a great rest of your day.
Have a great rest of your day.